>> Sean Larkin: And now,
I wanna talk about chaining loaders.
So, what's cool is that,
like I said, you can apply an array.
And so, since the anatomy of a loader
is just a function that takes a source and
it returns a new source.
That's it.
And so, in this specific case,
loaders always execute from right to left.
Now technically under the hood
they actually go right left right.
But the first pass going from left
to right is actually just to collect
metadata, and
it's not really that important.
The important thing is that,
they are going from right to left.
And I'm just going to show you
an example in the editor really quick.
You can think about it like this.
Instead of, let's just say you had,
so that was, style, css and less.
That's how you should kind
of think about it when you
read it inside of the configuration.
It's like you are calling each function.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
can you have a module matched
multiple rules in a rule set?
Or does the only the first match count?
>> Sean Larkin: No,
it's gonna apply against any rule and
you can choose to have it only apply
against one, like we have a way to do it
There's a key called one of or
any of and you can do either but, yeah.
So it's super flexible.
So you could choose to have
it apply against both or
it can be against just one.
So the answer is yes.
But just remember when it comes to
the ordering, I think this throws people
off because they're usually used to
seeing things from left to right and
going in order.
But I always just remember this pattern.
It's just like calling
a bunch of functions.
That's what they are, and
they return new source values.
Or you could do chaining style
if that's what you like seeing.
Where is it?
There we go.
So if you look at this little
conveyor belt here, we have this.
Let's just say your entry point
was importing style.less, right?
And so as just before WebPack
is about to parse this file,
we look to see if any rule sets
match against this file, right.
So style.less does in fact match this
regular expression cuz it ends in .less.
And so what we do is we're gonna apply
the less-loader first which takes
a, basically it just consumes the source
and converts it to a CSS file.
And then we're gonna take that CSS file
now and pass it to the CSS loader.
And what that does behind the scenes
is it converts it to the style rules in
memory as an array.
That style-loader is equipped to consume.
And then you'll see that once
you pass that to style-loader,
actually what happens is it converts it to
a JavaScript module that says, all right.
Take these styles, slap it in
a script tag on the browser, right?
So, and you might be thinking
to yourself well Shaun,
that doesn't really seem like best
practice for performance, right?
And it's true.
Maybe for
your critical styles you could use this.
But there is lots of different ways
of handling assets in Webpack.
And so for example we have plugins
that will extract this out into
single bundles instead of trying
to load it through JavaScript.
But this is really just a showcase.
Like, chaining,
you can chain multiple loaders together.
Like CSS loader and
style loader are used together.
But, they are separate loaders because
they are meant to be one kind of single
purpose.
Single purpose modules that
do one transform really well.
And there are just a crazy
amount of loaders.
I tried to do a regx search for
-loader and
web pack on mpm registry and
I found a crazy amount of stuff.
Everything from collecting code coverage.
You don't have to apply a transformation.
A loader could just collect metadata and
emit a file on disk, right?
So the code coverage or
like there's all sorts of stuff,
things like responsive image handling.
Like you could inject special JavaScript
for images as you process them.
You could compress images on the fly.
You can handle typescript, and it enables
you to use Babel, like everything.
Pug, Hamill, like for
me being from the Rails ecosystem.
[LAUGH] And you can even,
using Babble, preset PHP, right?
PHP that runs and
is converted to JavaScript.
Yes.
And as Tom Dale said,
where is your god now?
[LAUGH] Yes.
And the possibilities are endless, because
it's super easy to create a loader if it
just takes a source and converts it to
whatever you want and returns that source.
And so like loaders really it tells
Webpack how to interpret files.
How are you gonna process
certain types of files?
And it matches and applies
transformations on a per-file basis,
based on the result path of that file.
And before it gets added
to the dependency graph.